index.md, before:

# Welcome to my portfolio!

My name is Mildred Suriel, and I am an IT specialist currently working on completing my Associates in IT at Northern Essex Community College. I also work at Rockport Technology Group Inc, providing IT support to the companies we service.

This portfolio is meant to display my background in information technology and computer systems. You can find examples of my familiarity with built-in Linux commands such [grep](mildredsuriel.github.io/grep), [awk](mildredsuriel.github.io/awk), and [sed](mildredsuriel.github.io/sed). There are also some simple [bash](mildredsuriel.github.io/bash) scripts I have written for previous assignments, as well as instructions on how to [configure a centOS server within VMware](mildredsuriel.github.io/centos_vm) and [how to configure an Ubuntu server on a Raspberry Pi](mildredsuriel.github.io/ubuntu_pi). 

Aside from basic Linux scripting and OS configurations, I am also experienced in Processing (which is a language similar to C), where I have re-designed the popular [2048](mildredsuriel.github.io/2048) game. I also have experience with Python, where I have made an [automated texting app using Twilio](mildredsuriel.github.io/twilio), and developed [regex expressions for number and email verification](mildredsuriel.github.io/regex).

Please check back frequently for any updates to my [weekly accomplishments](mildredsuriel.github.io/weekly_accomplishments). Thanks!

Commit message:

add Linkedin and Github link to portfolio page

index.md, after:

# Welcome to my portfolio!

My name is Mildred Suriel, and I am an IT specialist currently working on completing my Associates in IT at Northern Essex Community College. I also work at Rockport Technology Group Inc, providing IT support to the companies we service.

This portfolio is meant to display my background in information technology and computer systems. You can find examples of my familiarity with built-in Linux commands such [grep](mildredsuriel.github.io/grep), [awk](mildredsuriel.github.io/awk), and [sed](mildredsuriel.github.io/sed). There are also some simple [bash](mildredsuriel.github.io/bash) scripts I have written for previous assignments, as well as instructions on how to [configure a centOS server within VMware](mildredsuriel.github.io/centos_vm) and [how to configure an Ubuntu server on a Raspberry Pi](mildredsuriel.github.io/ubuntu_pi). 

Aside from basic Linux scripting and OS configurations, I am also experienced in Processing (which is a language similar to C), where I have re-designed the popular [2048](mildredsuriel.github.io/2048) game. I also have experience with Python, where I have made an [automated texting app using Twilio](mildredsuriel.github.io/twilio), and developed [regex expressions for number and email verification](mildredsuriel.github.io/regex).

Please check back frequently for any updates to my [weekly accomplishments](mildredsuriel.github.io/weekly_accomplishments), or checkout my [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mildred-suriel-957b7688/) or [Github source](github.com/mildredsuriel) for more updates. Thanks!
